GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: old
drugs with
new prices. What's behind sudden
price hikes
on prescription drugs?
Also ahead: a hidden gift for
the nation's
bridges and roads buried in this
year's massive
congressional package -- how
lawmakers got
to yes after years of no.
Plus, in the footsteps of our
ancestors: an
encore look at one journalist's
walk around
the world to uncover man's
prehistoric journey.
PAUL SALOPEK, Fellow, National
Geographic:
Walking has shown me that the
boundaries between
stories are permeable, in that
one story bleeds
into another, because human life
bleeds into
each other because human life
each other.
GWEN IFILL: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields
and Michael Gerson analyze the
week's news.
All that and more on this
Christmas edition
of the "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: Christmas Day 2015
brought fresh
appeals for an end to terror and
a new focus
on peace. The theme dominated
annual messages
from various world leaders,
starting at the
Vatican.
Cheers erupted from the
thousands in sunny
St. Peter's Square, as the pope
emerged to
deliver his Christmas message.
In it, he spoke
out against atrocities by
radical Islamists.
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through
translator): My thoughts also
turn to those
affected by brutal acts of
terrorism, particularly
the recent massacres which took
place in Egyptian
airspace, in Beirut, Paris,
Bamako, and Tunis.
GWEN IFILL: Francis didn't
directly name the
Islamic State group, but he did
urge world
leaders to focus on Syria, Libya
and elsewhere.
He also praised countries who've
taken in
refugees fleeing the violence.
Some of those
refugees spent their Christmas
in a camp in
Calais, France, where they have
waited for
months, hoping to get to
Britain.
Across the channel, Queen
Elizabeth took note
of the hardships suffered by
many in her annual
holiday message.
QUEEN ELIZABETH II, United
Kingdom: There's
an old saying that it is better
to light a
candle than curse the darkness.
There are
millions of people lighting
candles of hope
in our world today.
GWEN IFILL: Again this year,
American troops
spent Christmas in Afghanistan
and other far-flung
outposts, including Kuwait.
MAJ. GEN. WILLIAM HICKMAN, U.S.
Army: Many
of these soldiers have had to
deploy multiple
times during the Christmas
holidays and other
holidays, so, again, we just
want to thank
them for their service, and
really tell them
we appreciate what they do for
our Army and
really for our nation.
GWEN IFILL: President and Mrs.
Obama also
paid tribute to the troops in
their pre-taped
holiday message, and they urged
Americans
to come together as one family.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Caring for those on society's
margins, the
sick and the hungry, the poor
and the persecuted,
the stranger in need of shelter,
or simply
an act of kindness, that's the
spirit that
binds us together, not just as
Christians,
but as Americans of all faiths.
GWEN IFILL: The Obamas are
spending their
holidays in Hawaii again this
year, hiking,
golfing and seeing friends.
It was a far more somber day for
tornado victims
across the South. At least 14
are now confirmed
dead in Wednesday's storms. The
same weather
system also brought flood
warnings in several
states today, and much of the
East Coast saw
record warmth again with
readings 20 degrees
above normal.
In Britain, the government
called a rare holiday
cabinet meeting to deal with
record flooding
in Northern England. The British
army has
been deployed to build
barricades in Cumbria.
That area has already seen the
wettest December
since records began in 1910.
A world away, the problem is
fire. Raging
bushfires in Australia destroyed
more than
50 homes southwest of Melbourne
and forced
hundreds of people to evacuate.
The fires
were burning near a popular
tourist attraction,
the Great Ocean Road. Witnesses
said some
people had to flee Christmas
celebrations
on a moment's notice.
PATRICK CAREY, Australia: They
were all prepared,
putting their barbecues on. They
were cooking
away. And, all of a sudden, they
could see
the smoke coming over the hill.
They thought
it was still four hours away,
according to
what they'd heard. And then, all
of a sudden,
it was an hour away, and, all of
a sudden,
it was half-an-hour away. So,
they just dropped
everything, stopped cooking and
hopped in
their car and headed here.
GWEN IFILL: Crews are using
water-bombing
aircraft and 60 fire engines to
battle the
flames. But officials say it
could take some
time to make progress.
Tragedy struck in Nigeria last
night. An explosion
at a gas plant killed dozens of
people as
they lined up to buy butane gas.
One reporter
said he saw about a hundred
bodies. Officials
say a truck was discharging gas
at the facility
when it exploded. The blast
touched off a
fire that raged for hours before
it was finally
doused.
There's another sign of
potential warming
between India and Pakistan,
after decades
of war and tension. Indian Prime
Minister
Narendra Modi made a surprise
visit to Pakistan
today. He met with Pakistani
Prime Minister
Nawaz Sharif, and aides said
they discussed
the disputed Kashmir region. The
two also
met at the climate change talks
in Paris this
month.
And an apology today from a
British astronaut
for an errant phone call. Tim
Peake misdialed
on a Christmas greeting from the
International
Space Station. Later, he
tweeted: "I would
like to apologize to the lady I
just called,
saying, hello, is this planet
Earth? Not a
prank call, just a wrong
number."
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
why some
drug prices suddenly spike; the
man who's
walking around the world; what
the highway
bill means for the nation's
roads and bridges;
Mark Shields and Michael Gerson
on this week's
news; and the hit musical about
the founding
father you forgot about.
GWEN IFILL: We now turn to a
story that continues
to worry and to anger consumers,
soaring drug
prices, even sometimes for new
versions of
old drugs.
The latest case involves a drug
that helps
treat a rare autoimmune
disorder. Until recently,
its manufacturer often offered
it at minimal
or no cost at all. But now
another pharmaceutical
company, Catalyst, says it wants
the FDA to
approve a modified, and likely
more expensive,
version of the drug.
I recorded this conversation
yesterday with
reporter Sabrina Tavernise of
The New York
Times.
Sabrina, I'm going to start out
by asking
you to define something that
most people have
never heard of. That is orphan
drugs. What
are those?
SABRINA TAVERNISE, The New York
Times: The
orphan drugs, this is a law that
was passed
in the early 1980s to try to
stimulate development
of drugs for rare diseases.
So, it was specifically meant to
get drug
companies to come up with new
ideas and new
inventions for small populations
of patients
that wouldn't otherwise have
been profitable,
so it gave some advantages to
companies that
wanted to -- that agreed to
develop these
drugs.
GWEN IFILL: And so now what you
see is that
some of these companies, some
companies are
repurposing some of these old
drugs that were
created under this -- with this
protection
under this umbrella for profit?
SABRINA TAVERNISE: So,
essentially, what's
happened, Gwen, is that the --
that companies
are sort of scouting around in
the landscape
looking for older drugs to get
approved under
this law, so, essentially, not
really doing
any development work, not really
doing any
of the hard, you know, invention
required
to come up with something new,
taking something
that was old that was already on
the market
and getting it approved, getting
it special
status under this law.
And so that gets them seven
years of market
monopoly, which is actually a
very, very long
period of time for the drug
industry.
GWEN IFILL: You wrote in The New
York Times
about a particular drug that was
designed
to help patients suffering from
Lambert-Eaton
myasthenic syndrome.
Tell us about that drug and
about how that
fits into what we're talking
about here.
SABRINA TAVERNISE: So, the drug
-- so it's
for a neuromuscular disorder.
People who have
the disease have trouble
walking. Many are
confined to beds or wheelchairs.
The drug
is (AUDIO GAP) quite old.
The original work that was put
into developing
it happened in the U.K. And the
earliest traces
I could find of it were in
France and Scotland
in the 1970s.
And, essentially, what's
happened is, the
drug has been effectively given
away for free
to patients since the early
1990s by sort
of an unusual drug company, a
little family-owned
drug company in New Jersey
called Jacobus.
That was the situation for many
years.
And what has happened is that a
publicly traded
company, you know, a Wall
Street-traded company,
has sort of swept in and seen
that the drug
didn't have FDA approval and
decided to get
it approved under this special
law, so basically
kind of racing to approval and
essentially
taking the drug off the market
for patients
that currently are getting it
for free, and
starting to charge what most
market analysts
think will probably be about
$100,000 a year.
GWEN IFILL: Exorbitant costs.
Now, who controls this? I know
this is the
FDA, but maybe it is also the
market. Maybe
these drug companies have the
right to charge
what the market will bear?
SABRINA TAVERNISE: So, Gwen,
this is a really
good question. And this sort of
gets to the
crux of it.
I mean, effectively, they do.
It's not illegal.
The FDA, when it decides how --
when it decides
what drugs to approve, doesn't
look at price.
That's not something that it
considers. It's
not -- it never has.
So, effectively, the United
States is really
the only rich country in the
developed world
that doesn't have any -- where
the government
has no control over drug
pricing, none.
And this is a vulnerability in
our system
that, effectively, companies
that are really,
really out to get very, very
high profits
for their stockholders have
taken advantage
of.
GWEN IFILL: So, it becomes out
of the good
of the company's heart if they
want to guarantee
access for people who need this
medication.
SABRINA TAVERNISE: So,
essentially, what the
companies have done is that they
agree that,
when a person is uninsured or if
the person's
insurance company won't cover
the drug, the
company has what they call a
financial assistance
plan that will help essentially
apply for
various subsidies, rebates. And
often the
company often kind of chips in
some money
to help patients pay for these
things.
But, for the most part,
insurance companies
do pay for the drugs,
particularly under the
Orphan Drug Act. The populations
are fairly
small. The prices are exorbitant
but the insurance
companies say, OK, well, there
are not that
many people, so we will cover
this.
But what economists say is that
this comes
out in everybody's premiums and
in everybody's
health care costs. The price of
having insurance
has gone up and up and up. And
why is that?
This is part of what's going on.
It's part
of the dynamic of rising costs
in health care
in the United States.
GWEN IFILL: Is there any way of
knowing how
widespread this is? I know it
shows up in
our premiums, but is it also
that if you put
together all these different
orphan drugs,
you actually end up with quite a
population
of affected people?
SABRINA TAVERNISE: Well, some of
the kind
of gaming of the system that
drug companies
have been doing under this act
is, they will
take a broader disease, say,
breast cancer,
and slice it into narrow
definitions of smaller,
smaller kind of subsets of that
disease.
Then they can qualify for orphan
drug status,
when, in fact, the population is
much larger.
Another example has been a drug
that's been
approved for some other
treatment that they
want to just sort of extend
their monopoly
on. And they under the act get
it approved
for some -- for a new treatment,
but, effectively,
it's the same drug. There's no
new research
that has gone into it, no new
work, no new
invention. It's just sort of a
repackaging.
So, these are some of the ways
that the law
has been abused.
GWEN IFILL: Many, many ways to
get to the
same end, which is a profit.
Sabrina Tavernise, thank you
very much.
SABRINA TAVERNISE: Thank you so
much.
GWEN IFILL: It is a journey of a
lifetime.
Journalist Paul Salopek spent
his career covering
the news overseas and jetting
around the globe,
until he realized that walking
around the
world might provide deeper
insight.
Earlier this year, Hari
Sreenivasan traveled
to the Republic of Georgia to
take a stroll
with Salopek.
It was such a memorable walk
that we decided
it was worth showing it to you
again tonight.
PAUL SALOPEK, Fellow, National
Geographic:
There is something not in your
brain, but
almost in your backbone, about
the rhythm
of walking, this A/B, A/B. It's
the pace of
a heartbeat.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On a high
country cool morning,
Paul Salopek is out for a walk.
But his walk
is unlike any you or I might
take. On this
morning, he is nearing mile
4,000 of a trek
that began in January 2013 in
Ethiopia's Great
Rift Valley, the wellspring of
ancient humankind.
PAUL SALOPEK: This whole project
is about
two things. It's about the past
and the future.
And the past element is
following our first
ancestors who spread out of
Africa during
the Stone Age, so, following the
footsteps
of some very old and intrepid
pioneers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: He calls this
project the
Out of Eden Walk, and he will
end it some
time in six or seven years at
the very southern
tip of South America, after
logging 21,000
miles. That's about 30 million
footsteps,
for those of you counting yours
every day.
The two-time Pulitzer
Prize-winning foreign
correspondent was used to
dropping into war
zones and driving his way out as
fast as possible.
But so far on this trip, he's
walked through
some of the conflict zones of
the Middle East,
now on an assignment that is his
lifetime.
With support from the National
Geographic
Society, the Nieman and Knight
Foundations
and others, he has walked across
deserts and
mountains.
So, why do this?
PAUL SALOPEK: There has got to
be a space
to slow down, analyze and absorb
more meaningful
information. I don't think we
need more information.
I think we need more meaning.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What kind of
context are
you able to get when you are
walking vs. when
we get there in cars and planes
and trains?
PAUL SALOPEK: Walking has shown
me that the
boundaries between stories are
permeable,
in that one story bleeds into
another, because
human life bleeds into each
other. And so
walking between stories shows me
connections
that didn't -- I didn't used to
see when I
would parachute in.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And what are
we saying?
What is humanity telling you?
PAUL SALOPEK: The same stories
over and over
again. It's the same classic
stories of complaint,
of joy, of aspiration, of hope,
of hopes dashed.
And I never get tired of them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We caught up
with him in
Southern Georgia's Caucasus
Mountains, near
Armenia, where the walk was
stopped late last
fall at this destroyed
Soviet-era building.
PAUL SALOPEK: Last November, we
had just crossed
the Turkish border, and it was
very bad weather.
It was snowing, it was sleeting,
very cold
both during the day and at
night. We came
down, and with frozen feet had
to break through
a frozen river, plunging in up
to our thighs.
And we were very afraid of
hypothermia.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Salopek and
three walking
partners found this "Spotlight".
One man set
his gloves alight to start a
fire and stay
warm.
PAUL SALOPEK: On a November
night a year ago,
this was heaven. This was better
than a five-star
hotel.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Then he waited
here in Tbilisi,
the capital of Georgia, for a
lot longer than
he planned. He was stuck in what
he calls
a geopolitically-induced storm,
waiting for
visas that would determine the
rest of his
route.
A hundred thousand years ago,
the problems
were different here, in this
land littered
with volcanic boulders from
ancient eruptions.
PAUL SALOPEK: When our
ancestors, the first
people who walked out of Africa,
passed through
this region, their big obstacles
were glaciers
and big animals that would eat
them or droughts
or famines. Today, mine is these
ethnic fault
lines and these imaginary walls,
these imaginary
glaciers called borders. And
they have knocked
me sideways, way off my intended
track.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Months of
back-and-forth
talks with regional governments
made it clear
that his original plan to walk
across Iran
and points east wouldn't work.
Finally, he set a route from
Georgia that
will pass through Azerbaijan, on
to Kazakstan
and beyond.
PAUL SALOPEK: This doesn't look
like much,
but this ruin on the high
plateau of Southern
Georgia is the beginning of
phase two of the
Out of Eden Walk. So, this is
the gateway
to the Orient for me. From here,
I'm leaving
the Caucasus, going on the old
silk roads
to China.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So at
mid-morning on October
20, Salopek set out, with the
world revealed
before him one step after the
other, on this
day up to a mountain pass at
more than 9,000
feet.
Down the other side, Salopek and
his walking
partner spent the night in the
small village
of Mamishlari, a village of
ethnic Azeris
from Azerbaijan. They were taken
in by the
Nasibov family; 72-year-old
Ziaudoin and his
70-year-old wife, Azmat (ph),
married as teenagers.
It is a tough farm life, on the
edge, really,
of civilization.
PAUL SALOPEK: We came around the
corner of
this mountain river and here was
this village
that we didn't even know
existed.
The first reaction was
curiosity. When I finally
told him, well, actually, I have
hiked all
the way from Africa, that was
the surprise
moment, and there was laughter
around that
table. And there was a lively
exchange about,
oh, you have got to be crazy.
ZIAUDOIN NASIBOV, Farmer
(through translator):
I don't think he is crazy. I
actually thought
he was quite enlightened,
because they actually
want to walk across the world
and see what's
out there. You might not notice
a place, but
when you walk by on foot, you
see it, and
appreciate it for what it
actually is.
PAUL SALOPEK: Ziaud also has
basically joined
the walk because he showed us
the way.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All along his
route, Salopek
has been joined by walking
partners, who function
as guides, translators and
companions. In
Georgia, that partner was Dima
Bit-Suleiman.
What is the reaction of most of
the people
you bump into when you tell them
what he's
doing?
DIMA BIT-SULEIMAN, Guide: They
go like, yes,
yes, yes, coming from Africa. On
walk? What
do you mean?
(LAUGHTER)
DIMA BIT-SULEIMAN: That's like,
usually, they
kind of don't believe and they
say, why is
he doing it? What is he trying
to find out?
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about
when they figure
out that he is trying to go to
the end of
the world?
DIMA BIT-SULEIMAN: And then it's
even worse.
And then they really ask, like,
what is he
searching for?
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes.
DIMA BIT-SULEIMAN: Like, why is
he doing that?
I don't think there is an easy
answer.
HARI SREENIVASAN: After passing
through boggy
lowlands, where horsemen emerged
from fairy
tale fogs, Salopek arrived at a
village, Ipnari.
Largely abandoned, it revealed a
much deeper
history, nearby, a Bronze Age
wine store,
5,000-year-old fermentation vats
sunken in
the ground.
PAUL SALOPEK: You're talking
about the beginning
of civilization. Georgians were
already drinking.
(LAUGHTER)
PAUL SALOPEK: The walk has
opened up the vista
to me in both space and time,
where I can
see the connections between all
of these stories
and I see how history informs
everything that's
happening today.
Time pools in certain valleys,
and it runs
like a river through certain
canyon systems,
certain plains. And every step
you take could
be in a different era. And so
here we are
coming up to another one, and I
think that
the task now is to kind of go
slowly.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But, for now,
his steps
were taking him toward the
village of Boslebi,
Georgia. And as the evening
gathered, Salopek
explained one mind-boggling
facet of this
grand experiment.
More often than not, when he
sets out each
morning, he has little idea
where he will
sleep that night.
PAUL SALOPEK: We're going to
draw attention,
obviously, and just start
greeting people
and start striking up
conversations.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And it is this
exact moment,
first contact in a village, that
Salopek was
hesitant to have us film up
close. It's hard
making a first impression with a
camera crew
in tow.
This day, five minutes after
this scene and
after meeting two other people
in town, they
both had a place to stay for the
night.
You don't plan out every step of
the way,
so to speak.
PAUL SALOPEK: Yes, it's hard to
explain to
readers who think that I have
got a team back
in the States with a big map
with blinking
lights and computers plotting
out my route.
They would laugh if they saw how
seat-of-the-pants
this is. This is truly sort of
strolling across
the world, and seeing how far I
get before
nightfall and then looking for
shelter. The
world is, by and large, a
hospitable place.
Merab, this is my friend Hari
from the United
States.
(CROSSTALK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Hari. Pleased
to meet you.
Paul introduced me to his host
for the night
before I arrived, Merab
Saaladze, a retired
deputy governor of the local
municipality.
You just invited him into your
home. He's
a total stranger.
MERAB SAALADZE, Georgia (through
translator):
I asked him who he was, and he
said he was
from the U.S., so I immediately
invited them
in.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is it common
to be this
hospitable, to take in a
stranger?
MERAB SAALADZE: To me, it was
the first time.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: After tea and
a bit more
conversation, we set out for the
next waypoint,
the ancient village of Dmanisi
about six miles
away, which we will tell you
more about in
our next story.
MAN: So, basically, there is no
shortcut.
Merab said, well, yes, you have
to cross the
river.
(LAUGHTER)
PAUL SALOPEK: OK.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But, as we
soon found out,
even the most precise directions
need updating,
which we were given by a man
with hands stained
from a lifetime of gathering
walnuts.
And that, says Salopek, is just
part of the
plan.
You have got GPS, you have got
maps, you have
got guides. You are still going
the wrong
way sometimes.
PAUL SALOPEK: Yes.
Being found is overrated. Being
a little lost
is good, because it keeps you
alert, keeps
you looking around. It keeps you
scanning
the horizons about to find your
bearings,
and you are not sleepwalking
through the world.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, how many
pairs of shoes
do you think you have gone
through?
PAUL SALOPEK: This is the
fourth. Somebody
brought me these from the
States, so they're
kind of special.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Do you get
tired by the
end of an average day, or has
your body gotten
used to this hiking pace?
PAUL SALOPEK: I do.
It depends on my physical
condition. You know,
look, the walk has kind of
turned into my
life, so it's a complicated
question to answer.
It's like you -- you have good
weeks and bad
weeks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes.
PAUL SALOPEK: I think I'm in
pretty good condition.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes.
PAUL SALOPEK: But I get tired,
and "my job"
-- in quotes -- is to write, not
just really
to walk. So, at the end of the
day, it takes
a special effort to sit down and
write a story.
My project, to walk across the
world for seven
years.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Those stories,
dispatches
from this ambling Eden, are
being followed
online by a growing group of
digital companions.
Young people in particular,
students, catch
up with Salopek along the way.
The tools of
the trade are the heaviest thing
he carries
in his backpack: a laptop,
cameras, notebooks
and not more than a single
change of clothes.
He stops every 100 miles to
record a milestone,
a panoramic photo in this case
that includes
an exhausted "NewsHour" crew and
a wayward
pig, then some video, and a
brief interview
with the nearest person.
This one, number 29, after 2,800
air miles
traveled, came outside a truck
driver's house
near a Georgian mining town. And
after a few
questions and a handshake,
Salopek is again
on his way, the rhythm restored.
What makes a human want to go
over the next
ridge?
PAUL SALOPEK: Ah, the eternal
question, the
one that probably doesn't have a
rational
answer through science.
The walk is part of that
exploration, the
impulse, not even rational to
know what's
over the mountain. Why -- why
paddle into
the sea? We have set out again
and again,
and nobody came back, and yet we
still set
out. And one scientist,
geneticist said, we're
just crazy.
And I think that magical,
wonderful craziness
is part of the joy of this
project. It's something
that also binds us together.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For the "PBS
NewsHour,"
I'm Hari Sreenivasan in Southern
Georgia.
GWEN IFILL: After leaving
Georgia, Paul Salopek
traveled through Azerbaijan, the
10th country
he's crossed, and will soon
continue his walk
across Central Asia on that silk
road to China.
he's crossed, and will soon
continue his walk
across Central Asia on that silk
road to China.
That trip over the river and
through the woods
might go a little more smoothly
in future
years, thanks to the big highway
bill that
became law this month. It is the
largest deal
of its kind in a decade.
And, as political director Lisa
Desjardins
reports, it's attracting both
cheers and concern.
LISA DESJARDINS: The scope of
this highway
bill is vast, over $300 billion
that will
touch roads and bridges in every
state and
most counties for half-a-decade,
a dramatic
law that hits very familiar
places to Americans.
HANS RIEMER, Montgomery County,
Maryland,
Councilman: Behind me is one of
the most congested
intersections in the state of
Maryland. And
we have had the designs
completed for this
upgrade of this intersection for
maybe 10
years. It's shovel-ready.
LISA DESJARDINS: Meet Hans
Riemer, a man who
thinks about transportation a
lot. He has
to, as a councilman for
traffic-heavy Montgomery
County, Maryland, north of
Washington, D.C.
Riemer showed us this
intersection that is
a major bottleneck each morning.
The county
has had a fix ready for years,
but it has
been in limbo waiting for stable
federal funding
to help, because -- listen to
this fact -- since
2009, Congress has limped
through 34 short-term
highway bills, and no stable
funding to back
big projects like this, until
now.
HANS RIEMER: If the concern is,
well, the
federal government is not going
to be there
on the other end, don't -- then
there is a
lot of pressure not to spend the
money locally.
And that is, you know, a -- that
is just a
downward spiral really for
everybody. So the
fact that bill is done at least
for a temporary
funding fix is a great step
forward.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader:
It would be the longest-term
bill to pass
Congress in almost two decades.
LISA DESJARDINS: Senate Majority
Leader Mitch
McConnell pushed the highway
bill as a priority,
and the mega-deal was put
together by usual
adversaries, Democrat Barbara
Boxer of California
and Republican Jim Inhofe of
Oklahoma. They
hashed out a final agreement
with House members
and the new speaker.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
We're going to have a highway
bill, which
will help families and workers
by rebuilding
our infrastructure and giving a
boost to our
economy.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's good news
for American
drivers, for counties and for
states trying
to fix their roads. They will
have five years
of stable federal funding. But
critics say,
after that, there is a problem
because of
where the funding comes from.
When created in the 1950s, the
Highway Trust
Fund was meant to rely on the
federal gas
tax for funding, but with lower
gas prices
and more fuel-efficient cars,
the money coming
in has dropped.
Despite less gas tax money, this
deal increases
highway funding for the next
five years. That
may sound good, but it does this
in controversial
ways. One, it sells oil from
America's Strategic
Petroleum Reserve. That sale
won't happen
until 2023, but this law spends
the money
now. Another issue, it takes $53
billion from
the Federal Reserve's surplus
accounts.
MAYA MACGUINEAS, President,
Committee for
a Responsible Federal Budget:
So, unfortunately,
instead of financing this in an
honest, straightforward
way, we're relying on budget
gimmicks, one-time
funding mechanisms, short-term
measures that
really are going to make the
problem more
difficult in the longer term,
instead of fixing
it.
LISA DESJARDINS: Maya MacGuineas
is the president
of the Committee for a
Responsible Federal
Budget. Her organization wrote
its own report,
saying highways should be
funded, but only
by reliable sources. Their idea?
Raise the
gas tax.
MAYA MACGUINEAS: The reason that
makes sense
is, the biggest burden of that
tax falls on
the people who use the highway
system. It's
not quite a user fee, but it
acts like a user
fee in a lot of ways. The gas
tax hasn't been
increased in quite some time, so
one of the
proposals that is on the table,
and that we
think makes an awful lot of
sense, is gradually
increase that gas tax.
LISA DESJARDINS: Back in
Maryland, the state
gas tax just went up this
summer, specifically
for transportation.
County Councilman Hans Riemer is
grateful
for the new federal highway law
and hopes
it brings changes to his
most-hated intersection,
but he is already thinking of
five years from
now, when the money runs out.
HANS RIEMER: I think the most
important thing,
of course, is a sense of
stability to the
commitment of the federal
government to meet
transportation needs. And
whether that budget
funding sources comes one way or
the other,
I am less concerned about that
than the fact
that the commitment is solid.
LISA DESJARDINS: That concern
goes beyond
drivers to the economy. The new
law and the
highway fund it increases will
support over
half-a-million jobs across the
country.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
GWEN IFILL: Now, for our weekly
political
analysis of this week's news, we
turn to Shields
GWEN IFILL: Now, for our weekly
political
analysis of this week's news, we
turn to Shields
and Gerson.
Judy spoke with them earlier
this week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The presidential
candidates
and voters are enjoying a brief
holiday break
from the campaign season, but
just before
they left the trail, candidates
were reacting
to the final debates of the
year.
And in just the last few days, a
new war of
words erupted between Hillary
Clinton and
Donald Trump.
And that brings us to the
analysis of Shields
and Gerson. That's syndicated
columnist Mark
Shields and Washington Post
columnist Michael
Gerson. David Brooks is away.
Gentlemen, welcome to you both
at this Christmas
week.
Let's talk first about the
Democratic debate,
Mark, of last weekend. Did it
change in any
way the arc of this Democratic
contest?
MARK SHIELDS: Not apparently and
not obviously,
at least to me.
I thought all three candidates
had, respectively,
their best debate show --
showing so far.
I thought they did excellent
presentations,
seemed in command of the facts,
seemed comfortable.
But if Hillary Clinton,
according to every
survey, entered as the dominant
national leader,
and she emerged, therefore, as
the dominant
national leader among Democrats.
The one question that I don't
know is whether
in fact it affected something in
New Hampshire
that is going to fester and
reveal itself,
or Iowa, but those are the only
two contests
right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Did you see
anything in that
debate, Michael, to change where
things are?
MICHAEL GERSON: No, it did
confirm the arc,
but it's an interesting arc.
I think that Bernie Sanders is
not going to
be the nominee, but I think he's
affected
the debate and discussion. He's
pulled Hillary
Clinton towards the left,
towards the progressive
side on a number of issues.
There wasn't much
-- she is not distinguishing
herself the way
her husband did by going to the
middle. She's
very conventional,
conventionally -- conventionally
progressive in this debate. I
think that shows
Bernie Sanders' influence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Mark, so
neither one of
you mentions Martin O'Malley. I
mean, is he
just left out of this?
MARK SHIELDS: I thought Martin
O'Malley was
better than Martin O'Malley has
been. I thought
he was good.
For whatever reason, it has
become -- I mean,
Bernie Sanders -- I agree with
Michael -- Bernie
Sanders has had an influence
quite beyond
anything anybody predicted when
he came into
this race, I mean, over
two-and-a-quarter
million contributors. The
Clinton people are
now sending out direct mail
requests for money,
complaining that -- not
complaining, but comparing
the fact that they have fewer
contributions
than Bernie, and that Bernie's
raised more
money.
He has certainly influenced and
shaped the
debate. And he is ahead in New
Hampshire.
And I would just point out, for
historical
purposes, that no president
since Dwight Eisenhower
has been elected to the White
House who didn't
finish at least first or second
in New Hampshire,
not that that affects Hillary
Clinton at this
point, but it certainly affects
the Republican
race.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we
appreciate the history.
MICHAEL GERSON: Yes.
Well, I think there were two
minor gaffes
that Hillary had, one of them on
the glitches
on Obamacare. There are more
than glitches,
what we're seeing. The other one
is, we are
where we need to be on ISIS,
which even she
doesn't agree with. She supports
a no-fly
zone.
Both of those kind of show the
dynamics of
a third term, where you're
defending your
immediate predecessor. Somebody
like George
H.W. Bush did that well in 1988.
Al Gore didn't
do this so well in 2000 dealing
with the Clinton
record and background. And she's
going to
have to deal with that as the
case goes forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, the other
thing Hillary
said that continued to get
pickup after this
debate, Mark, was her comment
that ISIS is
using video of Donald Trump
speaking against
Muslims as a recruiting tool.
He's come back and demanded an
apology, said
this is outrageous. Where does
this go from
here? I mean, we have got a war
of words going
on.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, you have to
come down
on Donald Trump's side, because
he's so fastidious
about facts.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: I mean, this is
somebody who
has apologized so frequently for
his own occasional
misstatements.
Where it goes, Judy, it's
something that Hillary
Clinton didn't need. Hillary
Clinton's strength,
as a candidate, are that she's
experienced,
that she's strong, that she's
smart, that
she's in command.
Her weaknesses are that she is
not particularly
likable to the majority of
voters and not
seen as honest and trustworthy.
She and Trump
have almost identical scores on
untrustworthiness,
if that's a word, in the most
recent Quinnipiac
national poll.
And so she doesn't need anything
that gives
further fuel to that particular
blaze that
she's not candid and
forthcoming, even though
Trump is making the case. She
did cast it
that she is running against
Trump, which is
to her advantage.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I mean, she
brought him up
several times during the debate.
I mean, this has erupted into a
real battle
between the two of them. Trump
has gone on
and used, I think you would have
to call at
least earthy language in talking
about Hillary
Clinton's loss in 2008.
MICHAEL GERSON: Right.
Well, I think that Mark is a
mensch, and that's
the limit of my Yiddish on this.
And I think
we have all learned some Yiddish
we didn't
need to know here. Some of this
is the normal
back and forth of politics. But
Donald Trump
is an innovator in contempt, an
innovator
in the decay of American
discourse when it
comes to knocking the disabled
or when it
comes to comparing another
candidate to a
child molester or when it -- or
his raw misogyny.
This is not normal. This is
getting rid of
the guide rails, the guardrails
of American
politics and life. And then to
complain when
they're gone and they're not
used, I mean,
it's not credible in his case.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, is this --
can he basically
just say whatever he wants and
get away with
it? The polls out this week have
him up again
nationally.
Now, there was another poll.
There was a -- one
poll that came out this week
that showed that
half of Americans said they
would be embarrassed
if he were elected president.
But, meanwhile,
the polls, when he's matched up
with the other
Republicans, have him out front.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes. No, he does.
If anything,
he has been strengthened.
Judy, this is a year that has
repealed every
rule that I have known about
politics. Before
they vote for you, they have to
like you.
Donald Trump is not liked. In
New Hampshire,
you have to go there. You have
to be there.
Whoever is there most often --
they expect
to see candidates. He's been
there less frequently
than either Scott Walker or Rick
Perry, both
of whom have withdrawn from the
race, and
yet he's ahead by a commanding
margin in the
polls.
And his language -- I mean,
Harry Truman was
roundly roasted in the
editorials of the country
for saying "damn." And Ike used
"hell." I
mean, and he is -- this is the
"Jersey Shore"
version of reality TV politics.
I mean, it's
the mad housewives of whatever
city you want
to name who are being just sort
of verbally
abusive.
I mean, it's -- the other thing
is, all candidate
-- every presidential candidate,
it's about
capturing the future. And Donald
Trump is
solely about sort of the
restoration of this
earlier America, where America
was dominant,
America could do whatever they
want, where
America strode the earth and
didn't have to
pay attention to anybody else,
economically,
or politically or militarily.
And I don't know. I mean, as of
now, he's
defied gravity.
MICHAEL GERSON: Yes.
And it does express something
deep and disturbing
about American life. And that is
contempt
for institutions. We have had a
lot of institutions
come under attack. For a certain
segment of
the public, when Donald Trump
shows disrespect,
that's an advantage. That
actually appeals
to them, because they have such
disrespect
for the system itself.
And that, I think, is dangerous
and sad.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there
something to be said,
meanwhile, Michael, about the
rest of the
Republican race? I mean, we do
spend a lot
of time talking about Donald
Trump. But what
-- do we see any new shape? Ben
Carson's been
slipping in the public opinion
polls. What
do you see?
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, I was in
Iowa recently,
and you could feel some gains
for Cruz.
He's solidifying movement
conservatives and
kind of religious right people
in -- and that's
a broader coalition, say, than
Huckabee had.
His was more narrow. I think
Cruz has a real
chance in Iowa, a very good
chance in Iowa.
You could sense that Carson is
slipping.
I don't know about Trump. The
big question
is, does Donald Trump's poll
number translate
into caucus-goers and into
voters? Normally,
his group, blue-collar voters,
non-college-educated,
vote the least of many groups,
OK. Will he
be able to get them out to the
polls, through
Twitter, through other methods
that we don't
know?
That's, I think, what
Republicans are really
wondering.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
the rest of
the Republican...
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I mean, I
think the Cruz
surge has been documented.
There's no question
about it, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And how do you
explain it?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I think that
there are
three groups that he's really
done well with,
the Tea Party conservatives --
he has obviously
run up the score there -- among
religious
and cultural conservatives,
especially evangelicals,
who had been leaning very
strongly to Ben
Carson, and have appealed away
from Dr. Carson,
and, third, with the very
conservatives.
And while that will serve him
well in Iowa
and presumably in the South and
Southeastern
states on March 1, it's not much
help in New
Hampshire. Pat Robertson and
Mike Huckabee
and Rick Santorum all did very
well in Iowa,
two firsts and a second among
them, and all
foundered in New Hampshire,
which I believe
-- you can check this out, Judy
-- is 46th
in church attendance.
All those beautiful -- all those
beautiful
congregationalist churches,
those white churches
on the town green make great
paintings, but
they're pretty empty on Sundays.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There are a lot
of churches
in New Hampshire.
MARK SHIELDS: There are
beautiful churches.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I have been there
enough to
notice them.
But I'm writing this down. And
I'm going to
check it out.
MICHAEL GERSON: I think another
big question
is, who can solidify the
Republican establishment
vote? It's about four people
now.
There was some expectation that
Rubio had
some traction here. But Chris
Christie could
do very well in New Hampshire
and complicate
Rubio's plans here. And Governor
Bush is still
significantly back.
So, that is the open question.
Will that lane
be filled by a strong candidate
that can contend
for this nomination?
MARK SHIELDS: And, in this
atmosphere, is
there is a lane? Is it a viable
lane, where
you have got so much insurgent
anti-establishment
support already wind up with --
with Cruz
and Trump and Ben Carson?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Last question.
It is Christmas. And so I have
to ask you
two, what gift would you give
this -- Michael,
it's been an up and down year
for President
Obama. What gift would you give
to the president?
And what gift would you give to
the Republicans?
And, Mark, you get your own
chance.
First, let's talk about the
president. What
would you give him?
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, I don't
think any Democrat
deserves anything in their
stocking this year,
because they already got Donald
Trump.
(LAUGHTER)
MICHAEL GERSON: That is
Christmas gift, birthday
gift, Valentine's Day. I think
anything more
would be greedy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, for the
president?
MARK SHIELDS: Grecian Formula.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: I mean, the
president -- the
president, who is not unvain, I
would say,
about -- and certainly careful
about his appearance
and everything else, mentions
more than once
his graying hair.
And it obviously bothers him.
So, let's -- at
least if we can't give him 60
percent favorable
job rating, we could give him
black hair again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We love gray hair
on this program.
All right, the Republicans, what
gift, Michael,
for them?
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, you
wouldn't normally
want this, but I think a lump of
coal, because
Republicans love coal, right?
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: Very good.
MICHAEL GERSON: And it would
drive Al Gore
crazy, so...
MARK SHIELDS: Very good.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: That was good. I
can't...
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're going to
have a hard
time topping that one.
MARK SHIELDS: I am going to have
a hard time
topping it.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: I would say the
recorded speeches
of Abraham Lincoln, just to
remind them from
whence they came.
MICHAEL GERSON: Better gift,
yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ah, OK. Coal.
Abraham Lincoln.
MARK SHIELDS: I didn't record
the speech.
They weren't recorded, but I'm
sure we could
get somebody to record -- maybe
Morgan Freeman.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we wish
both of you a
merry Christmas...
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you.
MICHAEL GERSON: Merry Christmas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... and the best
of holidays.
Thank you, both. And we will see
you in the
new year.
GWEN IFILL: Next: What happens
when you take
a look at America before and
after the Revolutionary
War, you throw in a little
hip-hop, a little
dance, and a little attitude?
Just the biggest
box office draw on Broadway.
That's what.
Jeffrey Brown has this encore
look at the
musical "Hamilton" and the man
behind it.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's the coolest
American history
you're likely to get, and the
hottest ticket
on Broadway. "Hamilton," a kind
of hip-hop
musical, tells of Alexander
Hamilton, immigrant,
ambitious young rebel, aide to
George Washington,
a founding father who arguably
never got the
recognition he deserved.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA,
Playwright/Actor: I'm
actually working on a hip-hop
album. It's
a concept album about the life
of someone
who I thinks embodies hip-hop,
Treasury Secretary
Alexander Hamilton.
(LAUGHTER)
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: You laugh.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Hamilton"'s
creator and star,
Lin-Manuel Miranda, performed an
early version
of one of the play's songs at
the White House
in 2009.
(SINGING)
JEFFREY BROWN: When we talked
recently, he
told me how Hamilton's life came
to be about
so much more.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: The joy of
discovery of,
oh, if I tell Hamilton's story,
I actually
tell the story of the forming of
our country,
that was a joyous experience.
And I think, honestly, that's
the secret sauce
in the score. I was learning
this stuff as
I was researching it to write
the show. I
knew the brought outlines that
everyone knows.
He was on the $10 and he died in
a duel. That's
pretty much anyone knows about
him.
JEFFREY BROWN: But were you
thinking from
the beginning that this larger
story was what
would emerge?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: I knew that
reading -- reading
Ron Chernow's biography of his
life was like
a Dickens novel, such humble
beginnings to
such incredible heights, and
such incredible
incident throughout, that, you
know, I always
tell people I feel like I'm a
mosquito that
hit an artery. Like, there's so
much here.
How am I going to get it all?
JEFFREY BROWN: Story-wise,
there's so much
there, yes.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: Absolutely.
What I'm always on the hunt for
when I'm writing
a song are details, and really
attacking every
moment in the most original way
and theatrically
compelling way possible. So, our
mantra is,
the political always has to be
personal.
So if you're going to write a
song about the
compromise that led to Hamilton
trading his
vote for the debt plan for the
capital of
the U.S. being down here in the
newly formed
D.C., well, that's easy to say
in a sentence,
but let's tell it from the
perspective of
Aaron Burr, who wasn't in the
room, and desperately
wants to be in that room.
And, suddenly, we can get away
with anything,
because we have got dramatic
tension.
(SINGING)
JEFFREY BROWN: Miranda, now 35
and the son
of Puerto Rican immigrants, is
an actor, composer
JEFFREY BROWN: Miranda, now 35
and the son
of Puerto Rican immigrants, is
an actor, composer
and playwright. He first made
his name with
"In the Heights," an exuberant
musical of
life in New York's Latin
American community,
the kind of life he knew.
"Hamilton" is set several
hundred years earlier,
but Miranda found a similar
connection.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: I would
argue that Hamilton
feels twice as autobiographical
than the
Well, I would I would argue
"Hamilton" feels
twice as autobiographical as "In
the Heights"
does.
JEFFREY BROWN: Really?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: Yes,
absolutely, especially
-- I actually think we kind of
double down
on the themes of "In the
Heights," and sort
of blow them up to a grand
scope. We're not
going to tell the story of an
immigrant neighborhood.
We're going to tell the story of
the first
American immigrant and the
formation of our
country.
And so, in that sense, it felt
intensely personal.
It's not the story of people who
have been
here for generations, but what
it feels like
to land here and make your way.
JEFFREY BROWN: And the language,
the rhythms
of hip-hop?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: It's the
best form for
Hamilton.
And when you extrapolate from
him, it's a
wonderful language for our
revolution. We
need a revolutionary language to
describe
a revolution. And this was...
JEFFREY BROWN: You mean hundreds
of years
later?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: We're
separated by an
ocean from Britain, so this
wasn't a fist-fight.
This was a war of ideas, in a
sense.
And so we needed not only great
fighters,
but great thinkers to navigate
us from rebellion
to the forging of a new nation.
And so hip-hop
is uniquely suited to that,
because we get
more language per measure than
any other musical
form.
JEFFREY BROWN: What about the
casting of the
founding fathers as Latino, as
black? Is that
an important part of this to
you?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: I think so.
I think one of our overarching
goals with
this show is -- with any show --
is, you want
to eliminate any distance
between your audience
and your story. And so let's not
pretend this
is a textbook. Let's make the
founders of
our country look like what our
country looks
like now. This is what our...
JEFFREY BROWN: So, it's not a
costume epic
with a distance.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: Correct.
Correct. And
this is what our country looks
like now. It
looks like, you know, we are --
we are every
shade and every color.
And it also comes organically
out of the music.
This is hip-hop and R&B music.
These are the
best people to sing this type of
music.
JEFFREY BROWN: These days,
Miranda is himself
a new kind of rock star vetted
all over.
We joined him in Washington as
he received
an Ingenuity Award from the
Smithsonian Institution,
and gave a talk to an adoring
audience. I
asked him about the use of the
word ingenuity
to describe his work, and that
brought on
a characteristic riff on how he
develops his
own word play.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: I remember
there is a
lyric in our show where
Lafayette says "ingenuitive
and fluent in French."
And I remember having a fight --
not having
a fight, but having a debate
with my collaborators,
because one of them was like,
well, that's
not a word, ingenuitive. And I
was like, I
think it is.
And then we were split 2-2
whether ingenuitive
was a word. And we looked it up.
And it is
an archaic conjugation of
ingenuity. And I
was right. And I don't know why
I knew that
word, so -- and other people
didn't, but...
JEFFREY BROWN: And, therefore,
you use it.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: And,
therefore, we use
it. Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you can make
up words if
you want, can't you?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: Well,
Shakespeare did
it. And it worked out pretty
great for him.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: So, writing
musicals, entertaining
musicals, telling stories, and
now filling
in large gaps in American
history. Is there
a hierarchy of that for you?
What's most important
for you?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: The most
important thing
for me, honestly, is meeting
those expectations
every night.
You know, we're not film actors
in that show.
It's not like you get it once on
camera in
the can and we're done. We're
shots. And we
have to make the experience
happen for the
audience that I'm going to see
tonight after
I get on the plane, for the same
audience
that -- you know, for a
difference audience
that I saw last night.
JEFFREY BROWN: I saw where you
said you think
to yourself, what's the thing
that's not in
the world that should be in the
world?
That's a big idea, right?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: I mean, do you
feel that? Like,
what's missing in our world?
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: Absolutely.
I mean -- and it goes back to I
hope that
what I can contribute is
something that hasn't
been seen before. You know, "In
the Heights"
very much, came out of me
wanting a career
in musical theater, but there's
only about
three great roles for Latino men
in musical
theater.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: You're
Bernardo, you're
Paul in "A Chorus Line" or, if
you can really
sing, you're Man of La Mancha. I
can't sing
well enough to be the Man of La
Mancha.
JEFFREY BROWN: So you did two
out of three.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: So, I wrote
-- I wrote
something that had so many parts
for Latinos
because I knew there was a void
there. I knew
it because I was going into that
world, and
I was scared.
JEFFREY BROWN: But it's also a
big idea to
think that you can fill a
vacuum.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: I think
that's what we
do about artists. It's, what the
thing that
only I can contribute?
It's not about the confidence to
like, hello,
world, here's this idea that
never existed.
It's, this is my brain, and
unless I express
it, it's only going to stay in
my brain. It's
more about personal expression
than imposing
your will on the world. It's
more about, you
know, if I don't get this idea
out of my head
and on to paper, it dies with
me.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
Lin-Manuel Miranda,
thanks so much.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Finally tonight, we
bring you
a special "NewsHour" Shares,
something that
caught our eye that we thought
might be of
interest to you too.
So, Santa has been doing a lot
more than delivering
presents today, and it's been
hard work. Take
a look.
(MUSIC)
GWEN IFILL: That's my man.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: There
are some beautiful pictures of
tonight's Christmas
moon. It is the first full moon
on a Christmas
night in nearly four decades,
and it won't
happen again until the year
2034. We have
collected images that some of
you have been
taking and uploading online from
around the
world, and they are truly
stunning. Take a
look.
You can find all that and more
on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
On "PBS NewsHour Weekend"
Saturday: an ambitious
plan to find homes for all of
the homeless
vets in Los Angeles.
And we will be back right here
on Monday with
a look at a new tool to help
people with celiac
disease and food allergies dine
out safely.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Gwen
Ifill.
Have a great weekend and a very
merry Christmas.